cli.md, before:

# Installation

```bash
npm install -g flashcardz
```

You *might* need to use `sudo` for that command

# Architecture

All of the code for the CLI is in the `bin` directory. Flashcardz installs 1 "binary" file - `bin/flash`, which is called `flash` on your system. That "binary" file allows you to use git-like subcommands. So running `flash convert` is the same as `bin/flash-convert`. Each of the "binary" files for the subcommands has "usage" and "description" thingies available if you just use `flash [subcommand] --help` or `flash help [subcommand]`

Each of the binaries needs to get a stack of flashcards as input. They all accept JSON from STDIN or files, except for `combine` and `quiz` which require files. So the following are equivalent:

```bash
flash convert myfile tab/newline
cat myfile | flash convert tab/newline
```

# Conversion

If you're studying stuff on [Quizlet](http://quizlet.com), you can just export your set of cards with the default settings and save the file. If you've saved the file, you can do something like this:

```bash
flash convert file-from-quizlet tab/newline > newfile
# or
cat file-from-quizlet | flash convert tab/newline > newfile
```

Then you can be quizzed over `newfile` via `flash quiz newfile`

# Quiz

```bash
flash quiz newfile
```

Note: `quiz` does not accept things from STDIN - you must provide a file name so that the file can be saved after your quiz

# Hardest and Easiest

Want to know which cards you struggle with the most and which ones you really know? Here's how you can find the #1 hardest and #1 easiest cards:

```bash
flash hardest newfile
flash easiest newfile
```

If you want to see, say, the top `$X` cards, you could use `-n $X`. For example, if you want to find the top 5 hardest cards and top 3 easiest cards, you could use this:

```bash
flash hardest -n 5 newfile
flash easiest -n 3 newfile
```

# Combinations

Combine as many files as you want:

```bash
flash combine afile1 anotherfile2 yetanother3 > combined-stack
```

And then feel free to do stuff with that new stack:

```
flash quiz combined-stack
```

Note: `combine` does not accept things from STDIN - you must provide files

# Remove Duplicates

If you have a couple stacks and you combine them but realize that there are some duplicates on in the combined file, use `dedupe`:

```bash
flash dedupe combined-stack > perf
```

Then feel free to do stuff like

```bash
flash quiz perf
```

The way the dedupe algorithm decides whether or not something is a duplicate, is it checks out whether the fronts and backs of 2 cards are the same.

# Full example

Assuming I have a bunch of files which are exports from Quizlet, and they're all in a directory - with nothing else in that directory - here's something I could do:

```bash
# Loop through all of the files
for file in *
do
	# Convert the file to its old name plus ".json"
	flash convert $file tab/newline > "$(echo $file).json"
	# Remove the old file
	rm $file
done
# Combine all of the files left
flash combine *.json > new
# Remove duplicate cards
flash dedupe new > perfect-stack
# Get quizzed over that new combined + deduped stack
flash quiz perfect-stack
```

Commit message:

CLI: document flash quiz better

cli.md, after:

# Installation

```bash
npm install -g flashcardz
```

You *might* need to use `sudo` for that command

# Architecture

All of the code for the CLI is in the `bin` directory. Flashcardz installs 1 "binary" file - `bin/flash`, which is called `flash` on your system. That "binary" file allows you to use git-like subcommands. So running `flash convert` is the same as `bin/flash-convert`. Each of the "binary" files for the subcommands has "usage" and "description" thingies available if you just use `flash [subcommand] --help` or `flash help [subcommand]`

Each of the binaries needs to get a stack of flashcards as input. They all accept JSON from STDIN or files, except for `combine` and `quiz` which require files. So the following are equivalent:

```bash
flash convert myfile tab/newline
cat myfile | flash convert tab/newline
```

# Conversion

If you're studying stuff on [Quizlet](http://quizlet.com), you can just export your set of cards with the default settings and save the file. If you've saved the file, you can do something like this:

```bash
flash convert file-from-quizlet tab/newline > newfile
# or
cat file-from-quizlet | flash convert tab/newline > newfile
```

Then you can be quizzed over `newfile` via `flash quiz newfile`

# Quiz

```bash
flash quiz newfile
```

Note: `quiz` does not accept things from STDIN - you must provide a file name so that the file can be saved after your quiz

`flash quiz` will show you the front of the card and ask you to type in what's on the back of the card by default. If you would like to change that behavior, you can use `-a front` to make the answer be the front of the card (i.e. you have to type in what's on the front of the card), and/or you can use `-s back` to be shown what's on the back of the card. If you want it to be really easy, you can use `-s both` to see both the front and the back of each card.

`flash quiz` assumes that you want to get every card right 2 times in a row. If you want to get every card right 5 times in a row, for example, you can use `-c 5`.

Here's an example of how to get quizzed over a stack of cards where Flashcardz shows you the back of the card, asks you to type in the front of the card, and tries to make you get each card right 3 times in a row:

```bash
flash quiz -s back -a front -c 3 newfile
```

# Hardest and Easiest

Want to know which cards you struggle with the most and which ones you really know? Here's how you can find the #1 hardest and #1 easiest cards:

```bash
flash hardest newfile
flash easiest newfile
```

If you want to see, say, the top `$X` cards, you could use `-n $X`. For example, if you want to find the top 5 hardest cards and top 3 easiest cards, you could use this:

```bash
flash hardest -n 5 newfile
flash easiest -n 3 newfile
```

# Combinations

Combine as many files as you want:

```bash
flash combine afile1 anotherfile2 yetanother3 > combined-stack
```

And then feel free to do stuff with that new stack:

```
flash quiz combined-stack
```

Note: `combine` does not accept things from STDIN - you must provide files

# Remove Duplicates

If you have a couple stacks and you combine them but realize that there are some duplicates on in the combined file, use `dedupe`:

```bash
flash dedupe combined-stack > perf
```

Then feel free to do stuff like

```bash
flash quiz perf
```

The way the dedupe algorithm decides whether or not something is a duplicate, is it checks out whether the fronts and backs of 2 cards are the same.

# Full example

Assuming I have a bunch of files which are exports from Quizlet, and they're all in a directory - with nothing else in that directory - here's something I could do:

```bash
# Loop through all of the files
for file in *
do
	# Convert the file to its old name plus ".json"
	flash convert $file tab/newline > "$(echo $file).json"
	# Remove the old file
	rm $file
done
# Combine all of the files left
flash combine *.json > new
# Remove duplicate cards
flash dedupe new > perfect-stack
# Get quizzed over that new combined + deduped stack
flash quiz perfect-stack
```
